I have cerebral palsy which means that my movements are not very accurate!!  So using a soldering iron is not possible. It also makes using windows difficult. I use Linux for that reason.  So I love the Raspberry Pi. Only problem is when I try to get add-ons for it. It is not always clear from the advertisement whether the add-on comes soldered together or not. Indeed  on a couple of occasions the picture was of the assembled part but when I ordered it the part that arrived was needed soldering rendering it useless for me!! Could I please use the pages of your magazine to plead with suppliers to make clear whether their parts need soldering or not?

Paula Thomas

[ed: This is a very valid point, and one which should be addressed by kit suppliers.]

--------------

I think that your magasine is pretty awesome.

Michel Bargone

---------------

The magazine is excellent, and I enjoy them all very much. You are doing a great job!!  I'm very impressed.  Keep up the good work.

John Franklin

--------------

Congratulations for an excellent Magazine.

Steve

--------------

Congrats on a great mag... Can you issue upgrade allowing deletion of separate issues [in the newsstand app]?

Alister Lockhart

[ed: This update will be made to the newsstand app - available on iTunes, if you don't already have it (search for The MagPi)]

--------------

I've only got to play around with a Raspberry Pi just recently, even though I've had a model B sitting on my desk since he middle of last year, and I'm impressed with the MagPi magazine that I download and read on the iPad - it certainly takes me back to my early days of hacking around with an Acorn Electron and various Spectrums etc.

Adrian Harper


--------------

I just want to say how much I enjoy reading the MagPi. An interesting and well producted magazine.
Keep up the very good work.

Nigel Trewartha

---------------

I found themagpi only through google and I must say it is really very interesting.

My question is, will there be more ones in german?
Is there any way we can support you except with money ( I did Donate i bit...)

Paolo Pietroluongo

[ed: There is constant work going on translations of the magazine. If you would like to help translate the magazine to an existing, or new, language, please get in touch with us.]

-----------------
















