- The Charm quark and friends <qubit.png> -

Charm on the Raspberry Pi

This and follow on articles are intended to promote interest in and understanding of the Charm language on the Raspberry Pi. As the author of the language, this is a goal I am keen to encourage, particularly among the younger generation of Raspberry Pi owners and users who are looking to learn a little about the mysterious world of programming.

The Charm tools are light on resource yet powerful and highly suited to an agile development environment. Applications of any complexity can be rapidly developed in small incremental changes without waiting around for the code to build; for instance the whole of the Charm distribution can be rebuilt in well under a minute!

Here I would like to cover the practical aspects of using Charm. I hope this will encourage people to take up writing Charm programs for themselves and join the over 1,200 people from around the world that have visited the Charm web site so far.

Installation

Charm version 2.6.1 is already bundled in the Programming folder of the RC6 release of Risc OS for the Raspberry Pi. I would however recommend updating to the latest version (currently 2.6.4) which is freely distributed under the Gnu Public License as a simple zip file from the Charm website charm.qu-bit.co.uk. There you can read more, get in touch with me through the Charm forum and view screenshots of the various Charm demos, of which the most fun is Decapedes, a shoot'em up somewhat akin to Pacman with some nice sound and graphics.

- Decapedes demo screen shot <decapedes.png> -

You may optionally wish to utilise the vector floating point (VFP) capabilities of the ARM 11 chip which is off by default for people running Charm on emulators or older variants of the ARM chip. This will involve enabling the VFP option in the Charm shell and re-building the distribution as described on the web site. Doing this will for instance speed up the included Mandelbrot explorer program by an order of magnitude by replacing floating point emulator (FPE) instuctions with native VFP coprocessor instructions.

- Mandelbrot explorer image <explorer.png> -

Tools

The set of Charm tools for Risc OS contains the following principal applications:

* !Charm - A desktop shell application for running the tool set. The shell supports drag and drop for files and folders, command logging and error reporting.
* edit - A general purpose editor that is useful for writing and developing Charm source code (drag files or folders to edit on to the Charm shell icon with the shift key pressed).
* armc - A compiler that generates an object file in binary form from a source code file written in the Charm programming language.
* arma - An assembler that generates an object file in binary form from a source code file written in ARM assembly language.
* arml - A linker that combines Charm object files into an executable Risc OS application or module.

New Projects

Creating new template projects in Charm is easy using the !NewProject utility application. Simply select New Project from the menu, name the project as you wish (default is MyProject) and drag the folder icon to the folder in which you wish it to reside. You can then build the project by dragging the project folder on to the Charm icon. You should then see the following in the Charm log:

- MyProject build log <log.png> -

Required project folders are created automatically, namely:

* src - Charm language source files
* obj - object files created by the compiler or assembler

- Charm tools folders and files <dirs.png> -

In case you don't want to inline ARM assembler inside Charm source you can create the additional folder:

* arm - Arm assembler source files

Applications that live inside an application folder are usually linked directly to the correct !RunImage location from inside the project 'build file using the program command.

Modular Programming

The concept of modules is key to an understanding of Charm (N.B. in this context Charm modules are different from Risc OS modules!). Each module is introduced with the keyword module, and each source file that Charm compiles contains a single module definition. It may however import exported declarations from any number of other modules on which it is dependent.

References are usually to other modules in the containing project and to run time library (RTL) modules that provide essential functions such as managing windows, files, the keyboard and screen. The latter are further documented on the Charm website. The order in which modules are compiled is determined by the project 'build file which also specifies the name and location of the linked application or module.

Getting Started

So now for the first few snippets of the Charm language. Each project must contain one and only one module in which a ~start procedure with one of two specific signatures is exported.

If no command line parameters are required, the ~start procedures is defined like this:

module Main
{
    export proc ~start() {...startup code goes here}
}

Hence, the classic hello world program in Charm which uses the vdu stream of the Out run time library module can be coded in file src.hello as:

- Use a fixed font for code : start -
import lib.Out;
module Hello {
    export proc ~start () {
        Out.vdu.str ("Hello World!\n");
    }
}
- Use a fixed font for code : end -

though you will need the project 'build file to contain:

- Use a fixed font for code : start -
module hello
program hello
- Use a fixed font for code : end -

in order to build the program before you can run it (the linker will find the Out library automatically for you).

A Practical Project

If you are up for a challenge, I suggest replacing the default !NewProject MyProject module with the following code to output the first dozen factorial numbers:

- Use a fixed font for code : start -
import lib.Out;

module MyProject
{
    proc factorial (int n) int
    {
        if n <= 1 return 1;
        return n * factorial (n - 1);
    }
    export proc start (ref array ref array char argv)
    {
        for int i := 1 step inc (i) while i <= 12
            Out.vdu.num_fld (i, 2).str ("! = ").num (factorial (i)).nl ();
    }
}
- Use a fixed font for code : end -

This code illustrates the use of recursion to calculate each value from the previous value via multiplication while utilising the axiom 1! = 1.

Finally as an exercise, try changing the program so that the first 20 factorials can be calculated without running into the 32-bit limitation on integer size (Hint: return a real from a factorial and use .float instead of .num to output it).

Next Time

Next time I intend to cover Charm data types, variables, strings and scoping.
